Hi everyone.
Let's continue with Python functions part two.
What is the difference between parameters and arguments?
The terms parameter and argument can be used for the same thing.
Information that are passed into a function from a function's perspective.
The parameter is the variable listed inside the parenthesis in the function definition.
Here in this example, this is the definition of a function and this is called parameter.
An argument is the value that is sent to the function when it's called.
Here.
When we call our function, we pass arguments and this is the difference between parameters and arguments
by default.
A function must be called with the correct number of arguments, meaning that if your function expects
two arguments, you have to call the function with two arguments, not more and not less.
Here in this example, this function expects two arguments, and when we call the function, we pass
two arguments in case when we call the function with 1 or 3 arguments, Python will throw an error.
Let's go to PyCharm and execute this two examples.
In the first example, we define our function which expects two argument.
When we call the function, we pass the exactly number of argument to argument.
The result is first name.
Last name.
We don't have any problem in case when we call the function with one argument, what will be the result?
Python throw an error.
Let's try the case with three arguments.
I execute the code again.
Python also threw an error.
My function takes two positional argument, but three were given.
To avoid getting an error.
We need to pass the number of arguments defined in the function.
If the function expects two arguments, we need to pass only two arguments.
When we don't have any idea about the number of arguments, what will be the solution in this case?
In this case, we used the arbitrary arguments asterisk arg s.
If you do not know how many arguments that will be passed into your function, add an asterisk before
the parameter name in the function definition.
This way, the function will receive a tuple of arguments and can access the item accordingly.
If the number of argument is unknown, we add an asterisk before the parameter name, like in this example.
It's become a tuple.
After that we can access to the argument via this tuple.
Let's go to PyCharm and understand more about arbitrary arguments.
In this function, we add an asterisk before the parameter name.
This kids it become a tuple.
After that we can access to the argument via this tuple.
Here we will access to the third item.
Third argument there and x2.
Because all collection like tuple list or set start from the index zero.
The result is the youngest child is zero seven.
And like we see here kids is a tuple contain three items first, second, and the last argument.
We can access to the second argument via the index one.
Let's execute the code again.
Here the result will be.
The youngest child is Nelson.
When we use arbitrary argument, be sure about the index.
For example, we cannot use the index 4 or 5 because the tuple doesn't contain four items.
In this case, when we execute the code, Python will throw an index error.
Tuple index out of range because there is no item four.
Let's go to the second example.
Here we will print kids number r length of kids and we call the function with no argument, with one,
argument with two and more to see what will be the result.
Let's execute the code.
The first with no argument.
The tuple is empty.
Kids number are zero.
When we pass one argument, the result is kids number are one.
The length of our tuple is one.
When we pass two arguments, the length of the tuple is two and the same for the other case three and
four.
Just remember here that arguments are often shortened to args in Python documentation, and for the
case of arbitrary arguments are often shortened to asterisk args in Python documentation.
And that's it for this video.